feat(curriculum): add Movie Ticket Booking Calculator workshop to Python cert (#64866)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/workshop-movie-ticket-booking-calculator/6958dd85587e10c99162dd81.md

---
id: 6958dd85587e10c99162dd81
title: Step 4
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-4
---

# --description--

> In Python, an `if` statement is used to check whether a condition is `True`. If it is, the code inside the `if` block runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you learned in previous lessons, in Python, an `if` statement can be used to run code depending on if a condition is true.

An `if` statement consists of the `if` keyword, followed by a condition and a colon. The code to run when the condition is true, which must be indented, is called the body of the `if` statement.
```

---
id: 6958dd85587e10c99162dd81
title: Step 3
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-3
---

# --description--

As you learned in previous lessons, in Python, an `if` statement can be used to run code depending on if a condition is true.

An `if` statement consists of the `if` keyword, followed by a condition and a colon. The code to run when the condition is true, which must be indented, is called the body of the `if` statement.

```py
if condition:
    # Code to execute if condition is True
```

In this step, you will check if the user is eligible to book a movie ticket based on their age.

> Create an `if` statement to check if `age` is greater than `18`. Inside the `if` block, print `User is eligible to book a ticket`. This will print the message only when the user's age is greater than `18`.

Reviewer: It makes sense to update the condition here. If we want to use a simple `>`, then it should be `age > 17`, otherwise `age >= 18`.

Remember to indent the body of the `if` statement and surround the message with single or double quotes inside the `print()` function.

# --hints--

You should have an `if` statement.

```js
({ test: () => (runPython(`assert _Node(_code).find_ifs()[0]`)) })
```

The if statement condition should be `age > 18`.

```js 
({ test: () => (runPython(`
_cond = _Node(_code).find_ifs()[0].find_conditions()[0] 
assert _cond.is_equivalent("age > 18") or _cond.is_equivalent("18 < age")
`)) })
```

> You should have a `print()` function inside your `if` statement. Remember to indent the body of the `if` statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should have a `print()` call inside your `if` statement. Remember to indent the body of the `if` statement.
```
